WEB ANALYTICS : AN HOUR A DAY

Some vendors : Omniture, Webtrends, Visual Sciences, 
-----------Introduction:-----------------------------------------------------

Combining the why (intent, motivation, and so forth) with the what (clicks, visitor counts) has to be the cornerstone 
of any successful actionable web analytics program.

Trinity Approach
Having actionable insights combined with clear goals helps crystalize the efforts of the organization.

The first component of the Trinity mindset is behavior analysis, what we traditionally consider clickstream data analysis.
Under the Trinity strategy, we will do click density analysis by using the site overlay report. We will massively segment the
data by n levels to find core nuggets of valuable insights.

The second component of the Trinity mindset is outcomes analysis (Figure 1.8). I fondly call it the so what element.Every website should have a clearly articulated outcome. If you don't have the capacity to measure all nuances of outcomes, the recommendation is to give up on measuring behavior (clickstream) altogether. If you don't have the ability to measure outcomes robustly, all the behavior analysis in the world will do you no good because you will have no idea whether all those graphs in the web analytics application you are using that are going up and to the right added any value to your company. Is it a bit extreme to dump clickstream in favor of measuring outcomes first? Yes. Necessary?

The third and last component of the Trinity mindset is experience (Figure 1.9). This encompasses our dear elusive best friend, why.
There are many ways to understand the experience of customers on your website. You can leverage surveys and simply ask them, or there are very complex statistical quantitative and qualitative methodologies you can bring to bear. Surveys will allow you to measure customer satisfaction and even predict future behavior (likelihood to buy or to recommend your products or services). A/B Testing and CDI(Customer Driven Innovation)

The Trinity framework can be applied to any kind of web business: e-commerce, support, advocacy, nonprofit, small business, and so on.


------------Data Collection: -------------------------------------------------

WebLogs
Beacons
Packet Sniffers
Javascript Tags

Which ever is the data collection strategy ,web analytics tool collect data mostly based on customer clicks

to give a combination of these facets of your website traffic:


Visitors (visits, total, unique)

Page views (individual, aggregates, averages)

Time (overall, averages, slices)

Referrers (counts, websites, keywords, trends)


An important facet of outcomes analysis is the ability to take key data out of a customer interaction that may or may not be available to a clickstream web analytics tool

True delight comes from knowing how you are doing vis-a-vis your competitors or the industry as a whole. This competitive intelligence is key to helping you understand your performance in the context of the greater web ecosystem and allows you to better understand whether a certain result is caused by eco-system trends or your actions
ComScore, ISP based Solutions, Search Engine base products are useful ways for Competition Analysis.

-------------Overview of Qualitative Analysis: --------------------------------------




  